# SNHU Travlr Getaways
## Overview
This repo contains a travel booking full-stack web application made with the MEAN (MongoDB, Express, Angular, and Node.js) stack for the CS-465 class at SNHU. The application is meant to help customers of Travlr Getaways to create an account, search for travel packages by location and price point, and book reservations with their travel agency as well as provide an admin-only site where Travlr Getaways administrators are able to maintain a customer base, available trip packages, and pricing for each item and package.

## Project Analysis Report
The goals of this application were to provide a user-friendly interface for customers of Travlr Getaways to book travel packages as well as provide an efficient admin-only interface to help Travlr Getawys administrators manage the customer base, available trip packages, and pricing for each items/packages. In order to meet these requirements, the system built has utilized a MEAN stack comprised of MongoDB, Express, Angular, and Node.js. The main reasons for this is to leverage the use of JavaScript as the primary language, allow for us to build an internal REST API, as well as allow for flexibility to use both static site architecture and SPA (Single-Page Application) architecture for the different use-cases. The admin-facing site was built using the Angular SPA architecture to build a fast and responsive admin interface that will be updating frequently based on user actions. 

The customer-facing site was built using the Express static site architecture so we can quickly load content directly from the server leading to a quick initial load and a better user experience. A NoSQL database, MongoDB, was used due to its flexibility and easy integration with JavaScript with its use of JSON data structures. JSON is a data exchange format whereas JavaScript is an actual programming language that can parse data structured in a JSON format. 

Utilizing reusable user interface (UI) components comes with a lot of benefits that allow for consistency and maintainability throughout the application development process. You can define a consistent set of styles and functionality of certain components and this helps maintainability in that if you need to update that component, you only need to update it in once place in order for the changes to be reflected wherever that component is used.

Methods provide a standardized way for clients to interact with the backend API and perform CRUD (Create, Read, Update, Delete) operations on data within a database. Endpoints represent specific URLs that map to a specific API method and defines the path at which a resource can be accessed or modified making it easier for clients to make requests to specific parts of the API. Security can involve authentication, authorization, encryption, etc. These are important to implement in order to protect sensitive data within the database and authorize access responsibly within the API.

I believe this course has helped me in reaching my professional goals as I'm always striving to become a better developer and grow my skills in web development. I have experience with JavaScript but not with these frameworks, so getting a chance to see how other frameworks structure things is always interesting and helps me grow my understanding of the language further. 
